readme.md, before:

﻿TSTypeInfo
==========

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ts-type-info.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/ts-type-info) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dsherret/ts-type-info.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dsherret/ts-type-info?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/dsherret/ts-type-info/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/dsherret/ts-type-info?branch=master)

Simple TypeScript AST and code generator.

Uses the [TypeScript Compiler API](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/Using-the-Compiler-API) to get information about TypeScript code in an easy to use format.

* [Version 6.2 information](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-type-info/wiki/What%27s-New)

```
npm install ts-type-info --save-dev
```

## AST

```typescript
// V:\TestFile.ts
﻿
export class MyClass {
    myStringProperty: string;
    readonly myNumberProperty = 253;

    myMethod(myParameter: string) {
        return `Test: ${myParameter}`;
    }
}
```

Get the file info:

```typescript
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

const result = TsTypeInfo.getInfoFromFiles(["V:\\TestFile.ts"]);
const property = result.getFile("TestFile.ts")
    .getClass("MyClass")                            // get first by name
    .getProperty(p => p.defaultExpression != null); // or first by what matches

console.log(property.name);                   // myNumberProperty
console.log(property.type.text);              // number
console.log(property.defaultExpression.text); // 253
console.log(property.isReadonly);             // true

// or access the arrays directly
const myMethod = result.files[0].classes[0].methods[0];

console.log(myMethod.name); // myMethod
```

If you notice a language feature missing please open [an issue](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-type-info/issues).

## Code Generation

You can work with objects retrieved from the AST or start with your own new file definition:

```typescript
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

// create whatever you like at the start
const file = TsTypeInfo.createFile({
    classes: [{
        name: "MyClass",
        methods: [{
            name: "myMethod",
            parameters: [{ name: "myParam", type: "string" }],
            onBeforeWrite: writer => writer.write("// myMethod is here"),
            onWriteFunctionBody: writer => {
                writer.write(`if (myParam != null && myParam.length > 40)`).block(() => {
                    writer.write("alert(myParam)");
                });
                writer.newLine().write("return myParam;");
            }
        }]
    }]
});

// add to it later
const myClass = file.getClass("MyClass");
myClass.isAbstract = true;
myClass.addDecorator({
    name: "MyDecorator"
});

myClass.addProperty({
    name: "myProperty1",
    type: "string"
});
myClass.addProperty({
    name: "myProperty2",
    type: "number",
    defaultExpression: "4"
});

// write it out
console.log(file.write());
```

Outputs:

```typeScript
@MyDecorator
abstract class MyClass {
    myProperty1: string;
    myProperty2 = 4;

    // myMethod is here
    myMethod(myParam: string) {
        if (myParam != null && myParam.length > 40) {
            alert(myParam);
        }

        return myParam;
    }
}
```

### Simple Examples

* [Strict Interfaces](examples/strictInterfaces/readme.md) - Make all interface properties required and append "Strict" to the end of the interface name.

### Full Examples

* [Server Bridge](https://github.com/dsherret/server-bridge) - Automatically generates client side code to communicate with the server from the server side code.
* [TsObjectCreate](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-object-create) - Code generation that writes functions for creating objects with their types.

## Include tsNodes

In case there's something you need from the compiler that's not implemented in this library, set the `includeTsNodes` option to true.
This will include the TypeScript compiler nodes in the `tsNode` property of most objects.

```typescript
import * as ts from "typescript";
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

const result = TsTypeInfo.getInfoFromFiles(["V:\\TestFile.ts"], { includeTsNodes: true });
const typeChecker = result.getTypeChecker(); // ts.TypeChecker in case you need it
const myMethod = result.getFile("TestFile.ts").getClass("MyClass").getMethod("myMethod");
const myMethodNode = myMethod.tsNode as ts.MethodDeclaration;

console.log(myMethodNode.body.statements[0].getText()); // "return `Test: ${myParameter}`;"
```

Commit message:

Add notice: 7.0 is the final major release

readme.md, after:

﻿TSTypeInfo
==========

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/ts-type-info.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/ts-type-info) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/dsherret/ts-type-info.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/dsherret/ts-type-info?branch=master)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/dsherret/ts-type-info/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/dsherret/ts-type-info?branch=master)

Simple TypeScript AST and code generator.

Uses the [TypeScript Compiler API](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript/wiki/Using-the-Compiler-API) to get information about TypeScript code in an easy to use format.

* [Version 6.2 information](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-type-info/wiki/What%27s-New)

```
npm install ts-type-info --save-dev
```

> Notice: Version 7.0 being worked on in the [dev branch](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-type-info/tree/dev) will be the final major release of ts-type-info. Based on everything I've learned by writing this library, I'm starting work on [ts-simple-ast](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-simple-ast). It wraps the typescript compiler rather than creating separate standalone objects. So far there's not much work done on it, but it will be much more powerful than this library once it gets up to speed.

## AST

```typescript
// V:\TestFile.ts
﻿
export class MyClass {
    myStringProperty: string;
    readonly myNumberProperty = 253;

    myMethod(myParameter: string) {
        return `Test: ${myParameter}`;
    }
}
```

Get the file info:

```typescript
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

const result = TsTypeInfo.getInfoFromFiles(["V:\\TestFile.ts"]);
const property = result.getFile("TestFile.ts")
    .getClass("MyClass")                            // get first by name
    .getProperty(p => p.defaultExpression != null); // or first by what matches

console.log(property.name);                   // myNumberProperty
console.log(property.type.text);              // number
console.log(property.defaultExpression.text); // 253
console.log(property.isReadonly);             // true

// or access the arrays directly
const myMethod = result.files[0].classes[0].methods[0];

console.log(myMethod.name); // myMethod
```

If you notice a language feature missing please open [an issue](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-type-info/issues).

## Code Generation

You can work with objects retrieved from the AST or start with your own new file definition:

```typescript
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

// create whatever you like at the start
const file = TsTypeInfo.createFile({
    classes: [{
        name: "MyClass",
        methods: [{
            name: "myMethod",
            parameters: [{ name: "myParam", type: "string" }],
            onBeforeWrite: writer => writer.write("// myMethod is here"),
            onWriteFunctionBody: writer => {
                writer.write(`if (myParam != null && myParam.length > 40)`).block(() => {
                    writer.write("alert(myParam)");
                });
                writer.newLine().write("return myParam;");
            }
        }]
    }]
});

// add to it later
const myClass = file.getClass("MyClass");
myClass.isAbstract = true;
myClass.addDecorator({
    name: "MyDecorator"
});

myClass.addProperty({
    name: "myProperty1",
    type: "string"
});
myClass.addProperty({
    name: "myProperty2",
    type: "number",
    defaultExpression: "4"
});

// write it out
console.log(file.write());
```

Outputs:

```typeScript
@MyDecorator
abstract class MyClass {
    myProperty1: string;
    myProperty2 = 4;

    // myMethod is here
    myMethod(myParam: string) {
        if (myParam != null && myParam.length > 40) {
            alert(myParam);
        }

        return myParam;
    }
}
```

### Simple Examples

* [Strict Interfaces](examples/strictInterfaces/readme.md) - Make all interface properties required and append "Strict" to the end of the interface name.

### Full Examples

* [Server Bridge](https://github.com/dsherret/server-bridge) - Automatically generates client side code to communicate with the server from the server side code.
* [TsObjectCreate](https://github.com/dsherret/ts-object-create) - Code generation that writes functions for creating objects with their types.

## Include tsNodes

In case there's something you need from the compiler that's not implemented in this library, set the `includeTsNodes` option to true.
This will include the TypeScript compiler nodes in the `tsNode` property of most objects.

```typescript
import * as ts from "typescript";
import * as TsTypeInfo from "ts-type-info";

const result = TsTypeInfo.getInfoFromFiles(["V:\\TestFile.ts"], { includeTsNodes: true });
const typeChecker = result.getTypeChecker(); // ts.TypeChecker in case you need it
const myMethod = result.getFile("TestFile.ts").getClass("MyClass").getMethod("myMethod");
const myMethodNode = myMethod.tsNode as ts.MethodDeclaration;

console.log(myMethodNode.body.statements[0].getText()); // "return `Test: ${myParameter}`;"
```
